Welcomer crew it's time for you to begin your first lesson by starting off with the basics.
While these ideas may seem simple they're fundamental enough though we should quickly go over them before
tackling more complex topics.
We'll begin by discussing the very basics of working with numbers in Python.
That should be pretty straightforward to start off numbers and Python have two main forms.
It's either integers those are whole numbers such as one two three one hundred two hundred etc..
Or floating point numbers.
Those are numbers with decimal points such as 4.3 5.6.
You get the idea.
Python can perform basic math operations easily.
Let's begin your training by opening up the Jupiter notebook and discussing these ideas further.
As we just mentioned there are two main types of numbers that is integers.
Number those are whole numbers.
So if I have 100 or 10 or 1 Those are all integers.
You can easily check the type of an object using the type function t y p e.
Open and close parentheses passen the object you want to check.
In this case I'll pass and 100 that we were on shift enter and I can say how i n t indicating an integer
type.
Let's try passing in ten point two.
That's a floating point number.
So we get back to type float.
Something to notice though is if I passen type.
One hundred point zero.
That's also a floating point number.
And also notice that if I type in 100 Dot I don't actually need to indicate a zero there.
For Python to recognize that this is a floating point number so one hundred point zero and 100 points
or 100 dot those are both floating point numbers.
Integers can't have any decimal points.
Now you may have expected Python that could perform basic arithmetic quite easily.
There is addition which you can easily do with just a plus sign one plus one run shift center and you
get back the result too.
You can do subtraction.
So one hundred minus one gets you ninety nine.
That's just the dash.
Multiplication is if an asterisk.
So you say too strict to that's multiplication division is a simple forward slash three divided by two.
That's 1.5.
Note here that division always returns floats.
So even when we say 1 divided by 1 that is equal to 1.
If you ever perform division in python that's going to return back a float point zero if you want to
do.
Powers are exponents.
That's two asterisks in a row to Asterix Actrix 3 is 2 to the power of three.
And you actually don't need the spacing there.
It's up to you stylistically you can't perform that.
And if you want to you could also do things like square roots so you could do for Asterix to the power
of one half.
Mathematically that's actually the same thing as taking the square root of 4.
Now we'll discuss more math operations later on.
In fact Python actually has an entire math library for more complex feature of mathematics.
Now that we understand the basics arithmetic Let's finally discuss order of operations.
If you ever need to indicate order of operations you can use parentheses as I've done here.
So let's dive into this example a little further.
Imagine that had one plus two times 1000 plus one.
Well what do you expect the result to be.
In this case it's going to be 2002 because the multiplication is going to happen first due to order
of operations and then we'll add in one on both ends.
But let's imagine you wanted one plus two to happen first and then one thousand plus one Tapin and then
you wanted those two results to be multiplied.
Well you can use parentheses to indicate order of operations.
One plus two multiplied by one thousand plus one.
And now when I run this you can see the result is three thousand three or three times 1001.
Let's now discuss the variable assignments.
You can assign variable names in order to keep track of objects in either your script or your notebook
or whatever development environment you're using.
We'll start off with a simple example will say a is equal to two.
And now I've assigned to the variable a.
So if I check the type of a.
It brings back an integer.
Since a is 2 and then I can do something like a plus 3 and if I run that I get back 5 because two plus
three is five.
I can also do another assignment such as B is equal to 3 and then interact with variables such as a
plus b important to note here is that I can do a re-assignment so I can say a is equal to 100.
And now if I say just ask for a return back it's no longer two but now it's 100 and if I say a plus
b Now I get back 103.
Now you can also reassign the same variable.
So what does this actually look like.
If I take a look at a rumor that is 100 I can do a re-assignment referencing the same variable.
So now I'm going to indicate that a is equal to a plus a.
Since a is currently one hundred I should expect the result of a to be reassigned to 200.
Meaning if I run this and I ask for a back.
It is now 200.
If I run this cell more than one time.
So notice my in operator it says number 25.
If I were to run this again.
So now it's 27 and then ask for a AY's now 400 because it's 200 plus 200.
And every time you run this you're going to keep adding onto that re-assignment.
So a notebook settings you want to be careful and try to organize your code.
That cell should be run in order from top down.
If you're running a PI script you don't have to worry about this because you'll basically be running
your entire script every time you run your PI script at your command line.
Finally let's work through a simple example of variable assignments We'll start off by creating a message
and let's say our message is the sequence 1 1 1 or the number 111 then we'll create another variable
called hash code.
And notice here what's happening with the word hash hash is being highlighted green.
If you ever see a variable name being highlighted that indicates that it's actually a special keyword
that's built into Python so you'll probably want to choose a different name.
So if you start doing things like list or as TR.
Notice how they're being especially highlighted.
That means those are already pre-built in keywords in Python and you should avoid reassigning those.
So instead of just saying hash I'm going to say underscore code and this use of underscore to separate
words in your variable names is known as snake casing or snake case.
There's also camel case where you can do something like hash and then the next word has a capital letter
for variable names in Python.
Try to use snake casing that is separating the words out with underscores.
Later on when we learn about more complex topics such as object oriented programming we'll see that
there is a given convention for naming and Cambell casing and snake casing Havner particular moments
right now for variable names.
Try to keep it with a snake case.
That is the use of those underscores the separate words.
So I will say my hash code is one two three four five and let's say I want to create a secret message
for another agent out in the field to discover.
Well I will say secret message is going to be equal to my message multiplied by my hash code.
And then I can send my secret message and I can use tab to autocomplete this I can send that secret
message out to the agent and if they know the hash code to get back the real message we can say real
message is the secret message.
Notice my tab auto completion divided by the hash code that they knew and then they can see that the
real message was like we said 1 1.
Now again notice that whenever you perform division your number gets converted to a floating point number.
OK that was actually a very basic example of something called encryption or you try to encrypt an original
message using some sort of secret key.
Later on we'll learn about much better ways of doing this.
This is just a very simple example of variable assignment OK.
Excellent work recruit.
It's time to move on to other basic Python data types.